## Bubble Sort


### Toy Problem

Sure, here's a basic problem for you:

Problem Statement:

You currently work in a Toy Manufacturing Company. The company produces different types of toys daily, and for inventory purposes, each toy is associated with a unique identifier (ID). Before the end of each production day, you are tasked with sorting the toy IDs in ascending order.

To perform this task, you decided to use the Bubble Sort algorithm. In Bubble Sort, you repetitively compare and swap adjacent elements if they are in the wrong order. 

Your task is to write a Bubble Sort algorithm that takes a list of integer-based toy IDs as an argument and sorts the list in ascending order.

Function Signature:

```javascript
function bubbleSort(toyIDs) {
  // Write your code here
}
```

Input:

An array of integers, toyIDs (1 ≤ toyIDs.length ≤ 1000000; 0 ≤ toyIDs[i] ≤ 1000000)

Output:

A sorted array of the same integers.

Example:

Input:
bubbleSort([5, 9, 2, 1, 7])

Output:
[1, 2, 5, 7, 9]

Note:

The above function takes in an array as an input and returns the sorted array using Bubble Sort technique. It takes advantage of the Bubble Sort characteristic of continuously swapping adjacent elements until all the elements are sorted.

</br>


### Solution

Solution:

Here's a simple implementation of the Bubble Sort algorithm in JavaScript:

```javascript
function bubbleSort(toyIDs) {
    let len = toyIDs.length;
    for (let i = len-1; i >=0; i--){
      for(let j = 1; j <= i; j++){
        if(toyIDs[j-1] > toyIDs[j]) {
            let temp = toyIDs[j-1];
            toyIDs[j-1] = toyIDs[j];
            toyIDs[j] = temp;
         }
      }
    }
   return toyIDs;
}
```

This simple implementation of the Bubble Sort algorithm repeatedly traverses through the array and compares each pair of adjacent items, and swaps them if necessary. In each pass-through, the largest element will be moved to the correct position in the array, just like a bubble rising to the surface, hence the name "Bubble Sort".

This algorithm has a time complexity O(n^2) since in worst-case and average scenarios, it has to perform n*(n-1) comparisons, where n is the number of items in the array. This would not perform well for large lists, which limits Bubble Sort's usability in real-world applications where time complexity is a critical factor. However, Bubble Sort could still be a good choice when dealing with small lists or for educational purposes, given its simplicity and ease of understanding.

The above solution is fine for the context given in the problem. But, if we are dealing with large lists which is indicated in the problem's Input constraints (as toyIDs.length can be up to 1000000), then Bubble Sort is not suitable as it would take prohibitively long time to sort. In that case, other efficient sorting algorithms like merge sort, heap sort or quick sort should be considered.