## Insertion Sort

##### Model: `gpt-4`

### Toy Problem

Problem: 

Create a Python function called `insertion_sort` that sorts an input list in ascending order using the Insertion Sort algorithm.

Insertion Sort is a simple sorting algorithm that works the way we sort playing cards in our hands. It works by inserting each item of the array into its proper place. 

Detail Explanation of algorithm:

- If it is the first element, it is already sorted. 
- Pick next element
- Compare with all elements in the sorted sub-array.
- Shift all the elements in the sorted sub-array that is greater than the value to be sorted
- Insert the value
- Repeat until the entire list is sorted

Input: 

The input will be a list of integers with no limit to the number of integers. 

Output:

Return the sorted list.

Examples:

The function `insertion_sort([4, 3, 2, 10, 12, 1, 5, 6])` will return `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 12]`

The function `insertion_sort([5, 2, 1, 7, 6, 8])` will return `[1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8]`

Note:

You can't use any built-in Python functions or libraries and you aren't allowed to use a different sorting algorithm. You must implement the Insertion Sort algorithm.

</br>


### Solution

Here's a Python function named `insertion_sort` that implements the Insertion Sort algorithm:

```python
def insertion_sort(arr):
    # Traverse through 1 to len(arr)
    for i in range(1, len(arr)):
        key = arr[i]
 
        # Move elements of arr[0..i-1], that are greater than key,
        # to one position ahead of their current position
        j = i-1
        while j >= 0 and key < arr[j] :
                arr[j + 1] = arr[j]
                j -= 1
        arr[j + 1] = key
 
    # Return the sorted array
    return arr
```

You may test the `insertion_sort` function with the given sample inputs:

```python
print(insertion_sort([4, 3, 2, 10, 12, 1, 5, 6]))  # It should print: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 12]
print(insertion_sort([5, 2, 1, 7, 6, 8]))  # It should print: [1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8]
```

This function works by iterating over the array and moving greater elements to the right, essentially "inserting" each element into its correct position in the sorted section of the array. The outer loop considers each item starting from the second one (assuming the first one is already sorted), while the inner loop iterates backwards from the current item's position, shifting items to the right until it finds the correct place to insert the current item.