## Insertion Sort

##### Model: `gpt-4`

### Toy Problem

Problem Statement:
-------------------

You are tasked to implement a function named "insertionSort" that performs the Insertion Sort algorithm on a given array of integers. The insertion sort algorithm sorts an array by iterating through the array from left to right, at each iteration, it removes one element from the list, finds the location it belongs within the already sorted portion of the array, and inserts it there. It repeats this process until no unsorted elements remain.

Input:
-------

The input will be an array of integers 'arr' (1<= |arr| <= 10^3, −10^5 <= arr[i] <= 10^5). 

You can assume that all the integers in the given array are unique.

Output:
-------

The output should be a sorted array of integers from least to greatest. 

Function signature:
-------------------
function insertionSort(arr: number[]) : number[]


Example:
----------
insertionSort([4, 3, 2, 10, 12, 1, 5, 6])
==> [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 12]

Note:
---------
While solving this problem, you are not allowed to use any predefined sorting methods provided by your programming language's standard library or the language's API. The aim of this problem to write the insertion sort algorithm on your own. 

Try to optimize the code as much as possible.

</br>


### Solution

Sure, I will code to solve this using TypeScript. Here is the "insertionSort" function implementing Insertion Sort Algorithm:

```typescript
function insertionSort(arr: number[]) : number[] {
    
    for(let i = 1; i < arr.length; i++) {
        
        let current = arr[i];
        let j = i - 1;
        
        while((j > -1) && (current < arr[j])) {
            arr[j+1] = arr[j]; 
            j--;
        }
        
        arr[j+1] = current;
    }

    return arr;
}

console.log(insertionSort([4, 3, 2, 10, 12, 1, 5, 6])); // Output: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 12]
```

In the solution, we follow the insertion sort algorithm which iterates through the array from left to right, picking one element at each iteration and placing it at the correct sorted position in the elements at its left (which are already sorted). 

This is done in the inner "while" loop that shifts the greater elements to right by one and places the current number in its correct place. 

It continues this process until the entire array is sorted. The function then returns the sorted array. This method does not use any predefined sorting functions provided by TypeScript.